README.md, before:

# ArduPilot Project

<a href="https://ardupilot.org/discord"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/674039678562861068.svg" alt="Discord">

[![Test Copter](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20copter/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_copter.yml) [![Test Plane](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20plane/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_plane.yml) [![Test Rover](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20rover/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_rover.yml) [![Test Sub](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20sub/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_sub.yml) [![Test Tracker](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20tracker/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_tracker.yml)

[![Test AP_Periph](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20ap_periph/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_periph.yml) [![Test Chibios](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20chibios/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_chibios.yml) [![Test Linux SBC](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20Linux%20SBC/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_linux_sbc.yml) [![Test Replay](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20replay/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_replay.yml)

[![Test Unit Tests](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20unit%20tests/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_unit_tests.yml) [![test size](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_size.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_size.yml)

[![Test Environment Setup](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_environment.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_environment.yml)

[![Cygwin Build](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/cygwin_build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/cygwin_build.yml) [![Macos Build](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/macos_build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/macos_build.yml)

[![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5331/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/ardupilot-ardupilot)

[![Test Coverage](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_coverage.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_coverage.yml)

[![Autotest Status](https://autotest.ardupilot.org/autotest-badge.svg)](https://autotest.ardupilot.org/)

ArduPilot is the most advanced, full-featured, and reliable open source autopilot software available.
It has been under development since 2010 by a diverse team of professional engineers, computer scientists, and community contributors.
Our autopilot software is capable of controlling almost any vehicle system imaginable, from conventional airplanes, quad planes, multi-rotors, and helicopters to rovers, boats, balance bots, and even submarines.
It is continually being expanded to provide support for new emerging vehicle types.

## The ArduPilot project is made up of: ##

- ArduCopter: [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduCopter), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/copter/index.html)

- ArduPlane: [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduPlane), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/plane/index.html)

- Rover: [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/Rover), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/rover/index.html)

- ArduSub : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduSub), [wiki](http://ardusub.com/)

- Antenna Tracker : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/AntennaTracker), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/antennatracker/index.html)

## User Support & Discussion Forums ##

- Support Forum: <https://discuss.ardupilot.org/>

- Community Site: <https://ardupilot.org>

## Developer Information ##

- Github repository: <https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot>

- Main developer wiki: <https://ardupilot.org/dev/>

- Developer discussion: <https://discuss.ardupilot.org>

- Developer chat: <https://discord.com/channels/ardupilot>

## Top Contributors ##

- [Flight code contributors](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/graphs/contributors)
- [Wiki contributors](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot_wiki/graphs/contributors)
- [Most active support forum users](https://discuss.ardupilot.org/u?order=post_count&period=quarterly)
- [Partners who contribute financially](https://ardupilot.org/about/Partners)

## How To Get Involved ##

- The ArduPilot project is open source and we encourage participation and code contributions: [guidelines for contributors to the ardupilot codebase](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/contributing.html)

- We have an active group of Beta Testers to help us improve our code: [release procedures](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/release-procedures.html)

- Desired Enhancements and Bugs can be posted to the [issues list](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/issues).

- Help other users with log analysis in the [support forums](https://discuss.ardupilot.org/)

- Improve the wiki and chat with other [wiki editors on Discord #documentation](https://discord.com/channels/ardupilot)

- Contact the developers on one of the [communication channels](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/common-contact-us.html)

## License ##

The ArduPilot project is licensed under the GNU General Public
License, version 3.

- [Overview of license](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/license-gplv3.html)

- [Full Text](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/blob/master/COPYING.txt)

## Maintainers ##

ArduPilot is comprised of several parts, vehicles and boards. The list below
contains the people that regularly contribute to the project and are responsible
for reviewing patches on their specific area.

- [Andrew Tridgell](https://github.com/tridge):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane, AntennaTracker
  - ***Board***: Pixhawk, Pixhawk2, PixRacer
- [Francisco Ferreira](https://github.com/oxinarf):
  - ***Bug Master***
- [Grant Morphett](https://github.com/gmorph):
  - ***Vehicle***: Rover
- [Willian Galvani](https://github.com/williangalvani):
  - ***Vehicle***: Sub
- [Lucas De Marchi](https://github.com/lucasdemarchi):
  - ***Subsystem***: Linux
- [Michael du Breuil](https://github.com/WickedShell):
  - ***Subsystem***: Batteries
  - ***Subsystem***: GPS
  - ***Subsystem***: Scripting
- [Peter Barker](https://github.com/peterbarker):
  - ***Subsystem***: DataFlash, Tools
- [Randy Mackay](https://github.com/rmackay9):
  - ***Vehicle***: Copter, Rover, AntennaTracker
- [Siddharth Purohit](https://github.com/bugobliterator):
  - ***Subsystem***: CAN, Compass
  - ***Board***: Cube*
- [Tom Pittenger](https://github.com/magicrub):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane
- [Bill Geyer](https://github.com/bnsgeyer):
  - ***Vehicle***: TradHeli
- [Emile Castelnuovo](https://github.com/emilecastelnuovo):
  - ***Board***: VRBrain
- [Georgii Staroselskii](https://github.com/staroselskii):
  - ***Board***: NavIO
- [Gustavo José de Sousa](https://github.com/guludo):
  - ***Subsystem***: Build system
- [Julien Beraud](https://github.com/jberaud):
  - ***Board***: Bebop & Bebop 2
- [Leonard Hall](https://github.com/lthall):
  - ***Subsystem***: Copter attitude control and navigation
- [Matt Lawrence](https://github.com/Pedals2Paddles):
  - ***Vehicle***: 3DR Solo & Solo based vehicles
- [Matthias Badaire](https://github.com/badzz):
  - ***Subsystem***: FRSky
- [Mirko Denecke](https://github.com/mirkix):
  - ***Board***: BBBmini, BeagleBone Blue, PocketPilot
- [Paul Riseborough](https://github.com/priseborough):
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF2
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF3
- [Víctor Mayoral Vilches](https://github.com/vmayoral):
  - ***Board***: PXF, Erle-Brain 2, PXFmini
- [Amilcar Lucas](https://github.com/amilcarlucas):
  - ***Subsystem***: Marvelmind
- [Samuel Tabor](https://github.com/samuelctabor):
  - ***Subsystem***: Soaring/Gliding
- [Henry Wurzburg](https://github.com/Hwurzburg):
  - ***Subsystem***: OSD
  - ***Site***: Wiki
- [Peter Hall](https://github.com/IamPete1):
  - ***Vehicle***: Tailsitters
  - ***Vehicle***: Sailboat
  - ***Subsystem***: Scripting
- [Andy Piper](https://github.com/andyp1per):
  - ***Subsystem***: Crossfire
  - ***Subsystem***: ESC
  - ***Subsystem***: OSD
  - ***Subsystem***: SmartAudio
- [Alessandro Apostoli ](https://github.com/yaapu):
  - ***Subsystem***: Telemetry
  - ***Subsystem***: OSD
- [Rishabh Singh ](https://github.com/rishabsingh3003):
  - ***Subsystem***: Avoidance/Proximity
- [David Bussenschutt ](https://github.com/davidbuzz):
  - ***Subsystem***: ESP32,AP_HAL_ESP32
- [Charles Villard ](https://github.com/Silvanosky):
  - ***Subsystem***: ESP32,AP_HAL_ESP32

Commit message:

Update README.md with lab code details

README.md, after:

# ArduPilot Project - Controls Lab Extension 
This repo was forked from the ardupilt source code for a simulink based controls lab. 

Students should use the `./Simulink/` directory for their projects. The project folder, simulink head, and matlab head should follow the example naming patterns: `project/project_model.slx` and `project/project_variables.m` 

Development is underway for a wrapper following the instructor's controller design.


Now starts the Ardupilot source code README:
# ArduPilot Project

<a href="https://ardupilot.org/discord"><img src="https://img.shields.io/discord/674039678562861068.svg" alt="Discord">

[![Test Copter](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20copter/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_copter.yml) [![Test Plane](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20plane/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_plane.yml) [![Test Rover](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20rover/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_rover.yml) [![Test Sub](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20sub/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_sub.yml) [![Test Tracker](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20tracker/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_tracker.yml)

[![Test AP_Periph](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20ap_periph/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_sitl_periph.yml) [![Test Chibios](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20chibios/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_chibios.yml) [![Test Linux SBC](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20Linux%20SBC/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_linux_sbc.yml) [![Test Replay](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20replay/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_replay.yml)

[![Test Unit Tests](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/workflows/test%20unit%20tests/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_unit_tests.yml) [![test size](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_size.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_size.yml)

[![Test Environment Setup](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_environment.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_environment.yml)

[![Cygwin Build](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/cygwin_build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/cygwin_build.yml) [![Macos Build](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/macos_build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/macos_build.yml)

[![Coverity Scan Build Status](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/5331/badge.svg)](https://scan.coverity.com/projects/ardupilot-ardupilot)

[![Test Coverage](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_coverage.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/actions/workflows/test_coverage.yml)

[![Autotest Status](https://autotest.ardupilot.org/autotest-badge.svg)](https://autotest.ardupilot.org/)

ArduPilot is the most advanced, full-featured, and reliable open source autopilot software available.
It has been under development since 2010 by a diverse team of professional engineers, computer scientists, and community contributors.
Our autopilot software is capable of controlling almost any vehicle system imaginable, from conventional airplanes, quad planes, multi-rotors, and helicopters to rovers, boats, balance bots, and even submarines.
It is continually being expanded to provide support for new emerging vehicle types.

## The ArduPilot project is made up of: ##

- ArduCopter: [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduCopter), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/copter/index.html)

- ArduPlane: [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduPlane), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/plane/index.html)

- Rover: [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/Rover), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/rover/index.html)

- ArduSub : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/ArduSub), [wiki](http://ardusub.com/)

- Antenna Tracker : [code](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/tree/master/AntennaTracker), [wiki](https://ardupilot.org/antennatracker/index.html)

## User Support & Discussion Forums ##

- Support Forum: <https://discuss.ardupilot.org/>

- Community Site: <https://ardupilot.org>

## Developer Information ##

- Github repository: <https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot>

- Main developer wiki: <https://ardupilot.org/dev/>

- Developer discussion: <https://discuss.ardupilot.org>

- Developer chat: <https://discord.com/channels/ardupilot>

## Top Contributors ##

- [Flight code contributors](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/graphs/contributors)
- [Wiki contributors](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot_wiki/graphs/contributors)
- [Most active support forum users](https://discuss.ardupilot.org/u?order=post_count&period=quarterly)
- [Partners who contribute financially](https://ardupilot.org/about/Partners)

## How To Get Involved ##

- The ArduPilot project is open source and we encourage participation and code contributions: [guidelines for contributors to the ardupilot codebase](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/contributing.html)

- We have an active group of Beta Testers to help us improve our code: [release procedures](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/release-procedures.html)

- Desired Enhancements and Bugs can be posted to the [issues list](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/issues).

- Help other users with log analysis in the [support forums](https://discuss.ardupilot.org/)

- Improve the wiki and chat with other [wiki editors on Discord #documentation](https://discord.com/channels/ardupilot)

- Contact the developers on one of the [communication channels](https://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/common-contact-us.html)

## License ##

The ArduPilot project is licensed under the GNU General Public
License, version 3.

- [Overview of license](https://ardupilot.org/dev/docs/license-gplv3.html)

- [Full Text](https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot/blob/master/COPYING.txt)

## Maintainers ##

ArduPilot is comprised of several parts, vehicles and boards. The list below
contains the people that regularly contribute to the project and are responsible
for reviewing patches on their specific area.

- [Andrew Tridgell](https://github.com/tridge):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane, AntennaTracker
  - ***Board***: Pixhawk, Pixhawk2, PixRacer
- [Francisco Ferreira](https://github.com/oxinarf):
  - ***Bug Master***
- [Grant Morphett](https://github.com/gmorph):
  - ***Vehicle***: Rover
- [Willian Galvani](https://github.com/williangalvani):
  - ***Vehicle***: Sub
- [Lucas De Marchi](https://github.com/lucasdemarchi):
  - ***Subsystem***: Linux
- [Michael du Breuil](https://github.com/WickedShell):
  - ***Subsystem***: Batteries
  - ***Subsystem***: GPS
  - ***Subsystem***: Scripting
- [Peter Barker](https://github.com/peterbarker):
  - ***Subsystem***: DataFlash, Tools
- [Randy Mackay](https://github.com/rmackay9):
  - ***Vehicle***: Copter, Rover, AntennaTracker
- [Siddharth Purohit](https://github.com/bugobliterator):
  - ***Subsystem***: CAN, Compass
  - ***Board***: Cube*
- [Tom Pittenger](https://github.com/magicrub):
  - ***Vehicle***: Plane
- [Bill Geyer](https://github.com/bnsgeyer):
  - ***Vehicle***: TradHeli
- [Emile Castelnuovo](https://github.com/emilecastelnuovo):
  - ***Board***: VRBrain
- [Georgii Staroselskii](https://github.com/staroselskii):
  - ***Board***: NavIO
- [Gustavo José de Sousa](https://github.com/guludo):
  - ***Subsystem***: Build system
- [Julien Beraud](https://github.com/jberaud):
  - ***Board***: Bebop & Bebop 2
- [Leonard Hall](https://github.com/lthall):
  - ***Subsystem***: Copter attitude control and navigation
- [Matt Lawrence](https://github.com/Pedals2Paddles):
  - ***Vehicle***: 3DR Solo & Solo based vehicles
- [Matthias Badaire](https://github.com/badzz):
  - ***Subsystem***: FRSky
- [Mirko Denecke](https://github.com/mirkix):
  - ***Board***: BBBmini, BeagleBone Blue, PocketPilot
- [Paul Riseborough](https://github.com/priseborough):
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF2
  - ***Subsystem***: AP_NavEKF3
- [Víctor Mayoral Vilches](https://github.com/vmayoral):
  - ***Board***: PXF, Erle-Brain 2, PXFmini
- [Amilcar Lucas](https://github.com/amilcarlucas):
  - ***Subsystem***: Marvelmind
- [Samuel Tabor](https://github.com/samuelctabor):
  - ***Subsystem***: Soaring/Gliding
- [Henry Wurzburg](https://github.com/Hwurzburg):
  - ***Subsystem***: OSD
  - ***Site***: Wiki
- [Peter Hall](https://github.com/IamPete1):
  - ***Vehicle***: Tailsitters
  - ***Vehicle***: Sailboat
  - ***Subsystem***: Scripting
- [Andy Piper](https://github.com/andyp1per):
  - ***Subsystem***: Crossfire
  - ***Subsystem***: ESC
  - ***Subsystem***: OSD
  - ***Subsystem***: SmartAudio
- [Alessandro Apostoli ](https://github.com/yaapu):
  - ***Subsystem***: Telemetry
  - ***Subsystem***: OSD
- [Rishabh Singh ](https://github.com/rishabsingh3003):
  - ***Subsystem***: Avoidance/Proximity
- [David Bussenschutt ](https://github.com/davidbuzz):
  - ***Subsystem***: ESP32,AP_HAL_ESP32
- [Charles Villard ](https://github.com/Silvanosky):
  - ***Subsystem***: ESP32,AP_HAL_ESP32
